THE BANNOCHBURN LEGACY

In this game, all activities take place within Bannochburn Castle.
The castle contains a number of monsters, including "an angry warlock"
and "a fire-breathing Fearbringer" who wander throughout the castle
while you are playing the game, waiting for the chance to leap upon
you, and tear you limb from limb.  The castle also contains bottles of
magic potion, chests which contain good and bad surprises, sheets of
papyrus with magic spells written on them, and more besides.

You are unlikely to come across all the contents of the castle in a
single play of the game. As well, the monsters have different powers
each time you tackle the adventure, and the chests and the gilded
safe, along with the rest of the magical contents, are in different
locations.  Although the monsters wander from room to room while
you're playing, the contents do not appear and disappear at random.
Once you've opened, for example, chest number two, you'll never see it
again during that game.  If you wound a monster in combat, and you
come across him again later in the game, you'll find it is the very
same (wounded) monster that you attacked earlier.

The aim of the game is to find the Black Lagoon, which lies beneath
the castle, but is entered from an ordinary-looking door in the
castle.  The location of the Black Lagoon can change from game to
game, although it will not move once a game is underway.

You are endowed with three "attributes" when you play the game:

    Magic - Strength - Wisdom

You play the whole game in terms of these attributes, choosing to
battle each monster in the particular attribute in which you feel
strongest, and in which you feel the particular monster is weakest.

Your attributes change and develop as the game progresses, gaining
when you win a battle, and diminishing when you lose one.

When you first run the game, you'll see the following:

    TIM, your attributes are:
       Magic: 1
    Strength: 5
      Wisdom: 2

    You are at the entrance to an
    ancient, forbidding-looking
    castle. You are standing on
    the north side of the castle,
    and as you look south, towards
    the tumbling structure, you
    notice the entrance portal
    is open and unguarded.
    
    What do you want to do now? S
    
The final question "What do you want to do now?" comes after most room
descriptions in the game, and you need to give one of the following
eight answers:

  - N  (go north)
  - S  (go south, the answer you must give to the first frame, shown
        above)
  - E  (go east)
  - W  (go west)
  - F  (fight -- this is one of the two possible answers you can give
        when confronted by a monster)
  - FL (flee -- this is the other answer, and it is not always
        accepted; "No, you must stand and fight" you'll be told)
  - Q  (quit-this is used if you wish to end a game before the end)

The only answer you'll need is "Y" or "N" to answer questions like "Do
you want to open the chest?"

One of these tasks is the running of the battles, or melees, which
occur during the game.  All fights are resolved according to the
relative strength of the protagonists in the battle, and on the result
of a throw of a die which is weighted to favor the stronger of the two
squaring up to fight.  You should therefore always select the
attribute in which you outrank the monster, to increase your chances
of winning that particular fight.

The point of the game is to get out of the Black Lagoon alive.  In the
final fight, against the Guardian of the Black Lagoon, you must have
three fights, one with each attribute, and you must finish this
three-part fight with a total of at least 10 attribute points.  The
money you collect within the castle can be used, just before the final
fights, to buy additional attribute points.

The story of Bannochburn Castle is simple, but tragic.  In the famed
War of the Clans which ravaged northern Scotland in the closing years
of the 15th Century, the Laird of Bannochburn engaged the services of
Wee Sporran McMerlin, a sorcerer originally in the employ of King
James in the Edinburgh Court.  When the bloodthirsty McKinna Clan
joined forces with the equally intemperate McClaren hordes, and
together attacked Bannochburn, the Laird implored McMerlin to envoke a
spell to protect the castle forever.

Unfortunately, Wee Sporran's intelligence was not as good as his
magic, and instead of conjuring up some spells to look after the
inhabitants, he simply conjured up a storm to protect the castle.  The
Laird and his retainers were slaughtered, but the castle remained
intact.  It survived right to this day, and your task now is to
explore it, and try and seek out its secrets and gold, and to slay the
Guardian of the Black Lagoon so the current Bannochburn Clan (now
living above a dry cleaner's in Glasgow) can regain their rightful
inheritance.  You feel -- possibly rightly -- that they'll be pretty
grateful to you if you manage to slay the Guardian, and thus rid the
castle of the spooky inhabitants Wee Sporran placed within the walls
so many years ago to protect it.

Note that once you enter the castle, there is no way out but through.
You cannot leave again by the front entrance, so there is no room for
second thoughts.  All input must be in upper case, so you must ensure
your computer is working in upper case before running the game, or
all your precious input will be ignored.

Good luck, and may the Guardian fall to your mighty powers.